THE SPECTRUM GAME DATABASE

SABOTEUR

PUBLISHER
Durrel

AUTHOR

YEAR
1984

DESCRIPTION
Saboteur is a side-view arcade adventure split-screen platform
game.

CONTROLS
You can use keyboard (redefinable) or joystick.

UP - Jump/climb up
DOWN - Duck/climb down
LEFT - Walk left
RIGHT - walk right
FIRE - Throw/pickup object

INSTRUCTIONS
When you select to start the game, you will be asked for a
difficulty level.  This determines how many enemies there are,
and how long you have to find the disk.  The aim of the game is
to find the secret disk and then escape from the complex using
the helicopter, before the time limit runs out.  Thankfully, the
time does stop as soon as you find the disk.

Up and down will may the saboteur jump and crouch respectively,
unless they are standing on or next to a ladder, in which case
he will climb it in the appropriate direction.

The top section of the screen display is your view of the world. 
The bottom section is divided into three parts.  The far left and
far right show what the saboteur is currently holding (if
anything) and what they are standing near.  The middle section
shows a variety of information, including score, time and health.

If the saboteur is standing near something, and is not carrying
anything, then pressing fire will pick it up.  Should fire be
pressed while the saboteur is carrying something, then they will
throw the object in the direction he is facing, unless it is the
disk.

CHEATS
Use the following codes:
Level 2 - JONIN
Level 3 - KIME
Level 4 - KUJI KIRI
Level 5 - SAIMENJITSU
Level 6 - GENIN
Level 7 - M1 LU KATA
Level 8 - DIM MAK
Level 9 - SATORI

SEQUELS/PREQUELS
Saboteur spawned one sequel - "Saboteur 2, Avenging Angel", in
which you played the sister of the hero of the original.  It was
a very similar game, but with a much larger map, and more variety
of enemies and graphics.

INLAY CARD TEXT
You are a highly skilled mercenary trained in the martial arts. You are
employed to infiltrate a central security building which is disguised as a
warehouse. You must steal a disk that contains the names of all the rebel
leaders before its information is sent to the outlying security stations.
You are working against the clock, both in getting the disk, and in making
your escape. You must enter the building from the sea by rubber dinghy, and
will then only be able to leave by the helicopter on the roof. You will have
to find your way around the warehouse, making use of the guards' own weapon
supplies in your struggle through overwhelming odds.

(C) DURELL SOFTWARE 1985

SABOTEUR by Clive Townsend
--------------------------
Compatible with Kempston, Protek and most other joystick interfaces.

Loading Instructions
--------------------
Place the cassette in the tape recorder and rewind. Make sure the recorder is
properly adjusted and connected to the computer. Type LOAD "" and press the
ENTER key.

Standard Controls
-----------------
A       Joystick UP     CLIMB UP if on ladder, or KICK if still
Z       Joystick DOWN   CLIMB DOWN if on ladder, or DUCK if still
M       Joystick RIGHT  MOVE RIGHT
N       Joystick LEFT   MOVE LEFT
SPACE   Joystick FIRE   THROW/USE/TAKE object, or PUNCH if none

NB: If you press the UP control at the same time as the MOVE RIGHT or LEFT
control you will perform a SIDEWAYS JUMP. The distance you jump will depend
on whether you were running or standing when you pressed the UP control. You
CANNOT kick or jump in rooms with a low ceiling.

NB: The THROW control used on its own will throw objects horizontally. If you
wish to aim an object you should press either UP or DOWN control at the same
time as the THROW control. This will direct the object up or down (at an
angle of 22 degrees).

NB: If you press the THROW/USE control when there is an object in your NEAR
DISPLAY, then the NEAR object will become HELD (and if you had a HELD object
at the time it gets swapped to become the new NEAR object). This swapping
process will continue until you move away from the NEAR object.

NB: The UP control also starts the helicopter.

Quick Start Instructions
------------------------
Enter warehouse. Avoid dogs, guards, and ceiling-mounted anti-personnel
weapons which are guided by video cameras. Go up through a number of floor
levels, then go over top of lift shaft to other side of the warehouse. You
will have to use the computer terminals to unlock some doors. Next go down
the sewers. On your journey you should try to find a hidden time-bomb and
carry it to the underground computer centre. Use two mini-trains which
connect sewers to computer centre. Take (or swap time-bomb with) the disk,
then escape by helicopter which is on the roof of the warehouse, (you'll have
to climb the stanchions and jump across the gantries on the top floor).

Screen Displays
---------------
The HELD DISPLAY shows the object that you are carrying and ready to throw.
Certain objects (ie: the disk and the bomb) cannot be thrown (though any
object can be put down and the HELD again later). If you press the THROW/USE
control when this display is empty (or contains the disk or the bomb) you
will only throw a PUNCH.

The NEAR DISPLAY shows nearby objects that you can pick-up or use. If you
press the THROW/USE control when an object is shown in the NEAR DISPLAY it
gets swapped with your HELD DISPLAY. The only exception to this is the
computer terminals, which you may USE to lock/unlock doors while a terminal
appears in your NEAR DISPLAY. Note that only a few terminals actually control
doors, and the rest have other functions which will not affect you. If you
have changed the lock status of a door when you USE a terminal the NEAR
DISPLAY will show the terminal change colour, (ie: if you leave a terminal
when it is purple you have changed a lock). Note that you CANNOT throw or use
your HELD object when there is an object in your NEAR DISPLAY. To fuse the
time-bomb you must swap it for the disk (in the disk's original location).

At the start of the game your TIME DISPLAY will show how long you have to
get to the disk (before its information gets down-loaded to all the outlying
stations, and your mission gets aborted). If you manage to place the time-
bomb in the disk's original location the TIME DISPLAY will then show how
long you have to get to the helicopter to make your escape. You don't have to
get the disk or set the time-bomb before you escape, but you'll be well
rewarded if you do.

The PAY DISPLAY shows your earnings in US dollars. You don't get paid for
hurting the dogs, and you don't get much for killing guards. You do get some
big bonuses for escaping with the disk after setting the time-bomb.

The RED BAR below the PAY DISPLAY shows your energy level. This will go
down when you get shot, when you fight, when you fall, or get bitten; but it
will go up if you stand still. If you run out of energy you die.

Fighting
--------
DOGS will snap at your heels and cause your energy to run down. You may jump
over them, or if you are mean and nasty you can kill them by throwing a
weapon (in which case you will have to aim it with the DOWN control).

GUARDS may sometimes be standing still and looking the wrong way, in which
case if you move very very slowly you may be able to creep up on them (or
just exit the room) without them noticing you. All GUARDS have throwing
knives, a gun (loaded with rubber bullets, as they prefer to capture
intruders rather than kill them out-right), and may resort to unarmed combat
(punching and kicking) though they won't have your Ninja skills and therefore
won't be able to kill with a single blow like you. If a guard throws a knife
at you or shoots as you, you can DUCK down out of the way, though eventually
you will either have to kill him or run away. Note that you can't kick a
guard in a room with a low ceiling.

The WEAPONS that you can throw include knives, shurikens (pointed stars that
you throw), grenades, bricks, rocks, and pieces of pipe. You can throw these
when they are in your HELD DISPLAY, and aim your shot by pressing the UP and
DOWN control at the same time as the THROW control. You can KICK by pressing
the KICK control when you are standing still, or PUNCH by pressing the
THROW control when your HELD DISPLAY is empty.

Skill Levels
------------
These affect the length of time in between shots from the guards and the
anti-personnel weapons (ie: your response time). They also affect the guard
dogs which become more vicious at higher skill levels. They also control the
position of the time-bomb which you will have to carry further on higher
skill levels (NB: so long as you stay at the same skill level you will
always find the bomb in the same place).

Score
-----
Dog killed                              0 (so why do it?)
Guard killed by weapon                100
Guard killed by punch or kick         500 (real Ninja stuff!)
Get disk in time limit               5000
Swap time-bomb with disk             5000
Escape (by helicopter)               1000 (and fight another day)
Escape with disk (bonus)             5000
Escape with disk and bomb set       10000

SCORES RECEIVED
4/5 Sinclair User.

URL

GENERAL FACTS

NOTES
One minor gripe - the advert pictured an SAS man jumping into a
bunker with a machine gun.  Unfortunately, as far as I know,
there are no machine guns available in the game (but the enemies
carry them). 























